src/components/custom/tutorial/flagd-content.mdx, before:

Providers are an important concept in OpenFeature because they are responsible for the flag evaluation itself.
As we saw in the previous step, OpenFeature without a provider always returns the default value. If we want to actually perform feature
flagging, we'll need to register a provider.

Create a new file named `flags.flagd.json` and add the following JSON. Notice that there's a flag called `welcome-message` which matches the flag
key referenced earlier. The `welcome-message` flag has `on` and `off` variants that return `true` and `false` respectively.
The state property controls whether the feature flag is active or not. Finally, the defaultVariant property controls the variant that should be returned.
In this case, the defaultVariant is `off`, therefore the value `false` would be returned.

```json
{
  "flags": {
    "welcome-message": {
      "variants": {
        "on": true,
        "off": false
      },
      "state": "ENABLED",
      "defaultVariant": "off"
    }
  }
}
```

> NOTE: This configuration is specific for flagd and varies across providers.

With the flagd configuration in place, start flagd service with the following docker command.

```sh
docker run -p 8013:8013 -v $(pwd)/:/etc/flagd/ -it ghcr.io/open-feature/flagd:latest start --uri file:/etc/flagd/flags.flagd.json
```

Commit message:

chore: add info on windows+docker limits
Signed-off-by: realanna <anna.reale@dynatrace.com>

src/components/custom/tutorial/flagd-content.mdx, after:

Providers are an important concept in OpenFeature because they are responsible for the flag evaluation itself.
As we saw in the previous step, OpenFeature without a provider always returns the default value. If we want to actually perform feature
flagging, we'll need to register a provider.

Create a new file named `flags.flagd.json` and add the following JSON. Notice that there's a flag called `welcome-message` which matches the flag
key referenced earlier. The `welcome-message` flag has `on` and `off` variants that return `true` and `false` respectively.
The state property controls whether the feature flag is active or not. Finally, the defaultVariant property controls the variant that should be returned.
In this case, the defaultVariant is `off`, therefore the value `false` would be returned.

```json
{
  "flags": {
    "welcome-message": {
      "variants": {
        "on": true,
        "off": false
      },
      "state": "ENABLED",
      "defaultVariant": "off"
    }
  }
}
```

> NOTE: This configuration is specific for flagd and varies across providers.

With the flagd configuration in place, start flagd service with the following docker command.
> NOTE: On Windows WSL is required both for running docker and to store the file. This is a limitation of Docker (https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/8479)

```sh
docker run -p 8013:8013 -v $(pwd)/:/etc/flagd/ -it ghcr.io/open-feature/flagd:latest start --uri file:/etc/flagd/flags.flagd.json
```
