docs/reference/concepts/01-evaluation-api.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: evaluation-api
---

# Evaluation API

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The Evaluation API is the primary component of OpenFeature that _application authors_ interact with.
The Evaluation API allows developers to evaluate feature flags to alter control flow and application characteristics.

```mdx-code-block
import LiteYouTubeEmbed from 'react-lite-youtube-embed';

<div className="video-container">
  <LiteYouTubeEmbed
    id="uVVwJt5ivAA"
    title="YouTube video player"
    poster="maxresdefault"
    webp
  />
</div>
```

## Setting a Provider

Before you can start evaluating flags, you must set a [_provider_](./provider).
The provider is the translation layer between the evaluation API and the flag system you use.

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/server-sdk';

OpenFeature.setProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
import dev.openfeature.javasdk.OpenFeatureAPI;

OpenFeatureAPI api = OpenFeatureAPI.getInstance();
api.setProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
using OpenFeature;

Api.Instance.SetProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
openfeature.SetProvider(MyFeatureProvider{})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
use OpenFeature\OpenFeatureAPI;

OpenFeatureAPI::getInstance()->setProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
import openfeature.api

openfeature.api.set_provider(YourProviderOfChoice())
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Creating a client

The OpenFeature client is a lightweight abstraction used to evaluate feature flags.
If your application is small, you may use a single client for your whole application.
In larger applications, it may be helpful to create multiple clients,
each with different configuration to fit the needs of different sub-modules.
Clients may also be created dynamically, per each HTTP request, for instance.

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
const client = OpenFeature.getClient('my-app');
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
Client client = api.getClient("my-app");
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
var client = Api.Instance.GetClient("my-app");
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
client := openfeature.NewClient("my-app")
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
$client = OpenFeatureAPI::getInstance()->getClient("my-app");
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
import openfeature.api

openfeature.api.get_client("my-app")
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Flag Evaluation

### Basic Evaluation

The client can be used to do basic flag evaluation, which simply returns flag values of a particular type.
The default value must also be specified.
In the case of any error during flag evaluation, the default value will be returned, so give consideration to your default values!

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
// get a bool value
const boolValue = await client.getBooleanValue('boolFlag', false);

// get a string value
const stringValue = await client.getStringValue('stringFlag', 'default');

// get an numeric value
const numberValue = await client.getNumberValue('intFlag', 1);

// get an object value
const object = await client.getObjectValue<MyObject>('objectFlag', {});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// get a boolean value
Boolean boolValue = client.getBooleanValue("boolFlag", false);

// get a string value
String stringValue = client.getStringValue("stringFlag", "default");

// get an integer value
Integer intValue = client.getIntegerValue("intFlag", 1);

// get a double value
Double doubleValue = client.getDoubleValue("doubleFlag", 0.9);

// get an object value
Value objectValue = client.getObjectValue("objectFlag", MyObjectInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
// get a boolean value
var boolValue = await client.GetBooleanValue("boolFlag", false);

// get a string value
var stringValue = await client.GetStringValue("stringFlag", "default");

// get an integer value
var intValue = await client.GetIntegerValue("intFlag", 1);

// get an double value
var doubleValue = await client.GetDoubleValue("doubleFlag", 1);

// get an object value
var objectValue = await client.GetObjectValue("objectFlag", MyObjectInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
// get a boolean value
boolValue, err := client.BooleanValue(context.Background(), "boolFlag", false, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get a string value
stringValue, err := client.StringValue(context.Background(), "stringFlag", "default", openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get an integer value
intValue, err := client.IntValue(context.Background(), "intFlag", 1, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get a float value
floatValue, err := client.FloatValue(context.Background(), "floatFlag", 3.14, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get an object value
objectValue, err := client.ObjectValue(context.Background(), "objectFlag", myObject, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
// get a boolean value
$boolValue = $client->getBooleanValue("boolFlag", false, null, null);

// get a string value
$stringValue = $client->getStringValue("stringFlag", "default", null, null);

// get an integer value
$intValue = $client->getIntegerValue("intFlag", 1, null, null);

// get a float value
$floatValue = $client->getFloatValue("floatFlag", 0.9, null, null);

// get an object value
$objectValue = $client->getObjectValue("objectFlag", $myObjectInstance, null, null);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
# get a boolean value
value = client.get_boolean_value("boolFlag", False)

# get a string value
value = client.get_string_value("stringFlag", "default")

# get an integer value
value = client.get_integer_value("intFlag", 1)

# get a float value
value = client.get_float_value("floatFlag", 0.9)

# get an object value
value = client.get_object_value("objectFlag", my_object_instance)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Detailed Evaluation

In addition to [basic evaluation](#basic-evaluation), _detailed evaluation_ methods are available.
These return the value, as well as additional metadata about the flag evaluation in the _Evaluation Details_ structure.

#### Evaluation Details Structure Fields

| Field                    | Description                                                                                   |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| flag key                 | the unique identifier for a feature flag                                                      |
| value                    | the value returned from a flag evaluation                                                     |
| reason (optional)        | a string explaining why the flag value was returned                                           |
| variant (optional)       | the variant associated with the return flag value                                             |
| error code (optional)    | an [error code](/specification/types#error-code) that categorizes flag evaluation errors |
| error message (optional) | a string detailing the error                                                                  |

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
// get details of boolean evaluation
const boolDetails = await client.getBooleanDetails('boolFlag', false);

// get details of string evaluation
const stringDetails = await client.getStringDetails('stringFlag', 'default');

// get details of numeric evaluation
const numberDetails = await client.getNumberDetails('intFlag', 1);

// get details of object evaluation
const objectDetails = await client.getObjectDetails<MyObject>('objectFlag', {});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// get details of boolean evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Boolean> boolDetails = client.getBooleanDetails("boolFlag", false);

// get details of string evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<String> stringDetails = client.getStringDetails("stringFlag", "default");

// get details of integer evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Integer> intDetails = client.getIntegerDetails("intFlag", 1);

// get details of double evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Double> doubleDetails = client.getDoubleDetails("doubleFlag", .9);

// get details of object evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Value> objectDetails = client.getObjectDetails<MyObject>("objectFlag", myObjectDefaultInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
// get details of boolean evaluation
var boolDetails = await client.GetBooleanDetails("boolFlag", false);

// get details of string evaluation
var stringDetails = await client.GetStringDetails("stringFlag", "default");

// get details of int evaluation
var intDetails = await client.GetIntegerDetails("intFlag", 1);

// get details of double evaluation
var doubleDetails = await client.GetDoubleDetails("doubleFlag", 1);

// get details of object evaluation
var objectDetails = await client.GetObjectDetails("objectFlag", myObjectDefaultInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
// get details of boolean evaluation
boolDetails, err := client.BooleanValueDetails(context.Background(), "boolFlag", false, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of string evaluation
stringDetails, err := client.StringValueDetails(context.Background(), "stringFlag", "default", openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of integer evaluation
intDetails, err := client.IntValueDetails(context.Background(), "intFlag", 1, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of float evaluation
floatDetails, err := client.FloatValueDetails(context.Background(), "floatFlag", 3.14, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of object evaluation
objectDetails, err := client.ObjectValueDetails(context.Background(), "objectFlag", myObject, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
// get details of a boolean evaluation
$boolDetails = $client->getBooleanDetails("boolFlag", false, null, null);

// get details of a string evaluation
$stringDetails = $client->getStringDetails("stringFlag", "default", null, null);

// get details of an integer evaluation
$intDetails = $client->getIntegerDetails("intFlag", 1, null, null);

// get details of a float evaluation
$floatDetails = $client->getFloatDetails("floatFlag", 0.9, null, null);

// get details of an object evaluation
$objectDetails = $client->getObjectDetails("objectFlag", $myObjectInstance, null, null);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
# get details of boolean evaluation
details = client.get_boolean_details("boolFlag", false);

# get details of string evaluation
details = client.get_string_details("stringFlag", "default");

# get details of an integer evaluation
details = client.get_integer_details("intFlag", 1);

# get details of a float evaluation
details = client.get_float_details("floatFlag", 1);

# get details of object evaluation
details = client.get_object_details("objectFlag", {});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Add flag metadata to Evaluation Details table in Evaluation API docs
Signed-off-by: Yoneo Arai <yoneo.arai@split.io>

docs/reference/concepts/01-evaluation-api.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: evaluation-api
---

# Evaluation API

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The Evaluation API is the primary component of OpenFeature that _application authors_ interact with.
The Evaluation API allows developers to evaluate feature flags to alter control flow and application characteristics.

```mdx-code-block
import LiteYouTubeEmbed from 'react-lite-youtube-embed';

<div className="video-container">
  <LiteYouTubeEmbed
    id="uVVwJt5ivAA"
    title="YouTube video player"
    poster="maxresdefault"
    webp
  />
</div>
```

## Setting a Provider

Before you can start evaluating flags, you must set a [_provider_](./provider).
The provider is the translation layer between the evaluation API and the flag system you use.

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/server-sdk';

OpenFeature.setProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
import dev.openfeature.javasdk.OpenFeatureAPI;

OpenFeatureAPI api = OpenFeatureAPI.getInstance();
api.setProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
using OpenFeature;

Api.Instance.SetProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
openfeature.SetProvider(MyFeatureProvider{})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
use OpenFeature\OpenFeatureAPI;

OpenFeatureAPI::getInstance()->setProvider(new YourProviderOfChoice());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
import openfeature.api

openfeature.api.set_provider(YourProviderOfChoice())
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Creating a client

The OpenFeature client is a lightweight abstraction used to evaluate feature flags.
If your application is small, you may use a single client for your whole application.
In larger applications, it may be helpful to create multiple clients,
each with different configuration to fit the needs of different sub-modules.
Clients may also be created dynamically, per each HTTP request, for instance.

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
const client = OpenFeature.getClient('my-app');
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
Client client = api.getClient("my-app");
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
var client = Api.Instance.GetClient("my-app");
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
client := openfeature.NewClient("my-app")
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
$client = OpenFeatureAPI::getInstance()->getClient("my-app");
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
import openfeature.api

openfeature.api.get_client("my-app")
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Flag Evaluation

### Basic Evaluation

The client can be used to do basic flag evaluation, which simply returns flag values of a particular type.
The default value must also be specified.
In the case of any error during flag evaluation, the default value will be returned, so give consideration to your default values!

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
// get a bool value
const boolValue = await client.getBooleanValue('boolFlag', false);

// get a string value
const stringValue = await client.getStringValue('stringFlag', 'default');

// get an numeric value
const numberValue = await client.getNumberValue('intFlag', 1);

// get an object value
const object = await client.getObjectValue<MyObject>('objectFlag', {});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// get a boolean value
Boolean boolValue = client.getBooleanValue("boolFlag", false);

// get a string value
String stringValue = client.getStringValue("stringFlag", "default");

// get an integer value
Integer intValue = client.getIntegerValue("intFlag", 1);

// get a double value
Double doubleValue = client.getDoubleValue("doubleFlag", 0.9);

// get an object value
Value objectValue = client.getObjectValue("objectFlag", MyObjectInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
// get a boolean value
var boolValue = await client.GetBooleanValue("boolFlag", false);

// get a string value
var stringValue = await client.GetStringValue("stringFlag", "default");

// get an integer value
var intValue = await client.GetIntegerValue("intFlag", 1);

// get an double value
var doubleValue = await client.GetDoubleValue("doubleFlag", 1);

// get an object value
var objectValue = await client.GetObjectValue("objectFlag", MyObjectInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
// get a boolean value
boolValue, err := client.BooleanValue(context.Background(), "boolFlag", false, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get a string value
stringValue, err := client.StringValue(context.Background(), "stringFlag", "default", openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get an integer value
intValue, err := client.IntValue(context.Background(), "intFlag", 1, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get a float value
floatValue, err := client.FloatValue(context.Background(), "floatFlag", 3.14, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get an object value
objectValue, err := client.ObjectValue(context.Background(), "objectFlag", myObject, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
// get a boolean value
$boolValue = $client->getBooleanValue("boolFlag", false, null, null);

// get a string value
$stringValue = $client->getStringValue("stringFlag", "default", null, null);

// get an integer value
$intValue = $client->getIntegerValue("intFlag", 1, null, null);

// get a float value
$floatValue = $client->getFloatValue("floatFlag", 0.9, null, null);

// get an object value
$objectValue = $client->getObjectValue("objectFlag", $myObjectInstance, null, null);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
# get a boolean value
value = client.get_boolean_value("boolFlag", False)

# get a string value
value = client.get_string_value("stringFlag", "default")

# get an integer value
value = client.get_integer_value("intFlag", 1)

# get a float value
value = client.get_float_value("floatFlag", 0.9)

# get an object value
value = client.get_object_value("objectFlag", my_object_instance)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Detailed Evaluation

In addition to [basic evaluation](#basic-evaluation), _detailed evaluation_ methods are available.
These return the value, as well as additional metadata about the flag evaluation in the _Evaluation Details_ structure.

#### Evaluation Details Structure Fields

| Field                    | Description                                                                                   |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| flag key                 | the unique identifier for a feature flag                                                      |
| value                    | the value returned from a flag evaluation                                                     |
| reason (optional)        | a string explaining why the flag value was returned                                           |
| variant (optional)       | the variant associated with the return flag value                                             |
| flag metadata (optional) | a key-value structure which supports definition of arbitrary properties                       |
| error code (optional)    | an [error code](/specification/types#error-code) that categorizes flag evaluation errors |
| error message (optional) | a string detailing the error                                                                  |

<Tabs groupId="code">
<TabItem value="js" label="TypeScript">

```ts
// get details of boolean evaluation
const boolDetails = await client.getBooleanDetails('boolFlag', false);

// get details of string evaluation
const stringDetails = await client.getStringDetails('stringFlag', 'default');

// get details of numeric evaluation
const numberDetails = await client.getNumberDetails('intFlag', 1);

// get details of object evaluation
const objectDetails = await client.getObjectDetails<MyObject>('objectFlag', {});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// get details of boolean evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Boolean> boolDetails = client.getBooleanDetails("boolFlag", false);

// get details of string evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<String> stringDetails = client.getStringDetails("stringFlag", "default");

// get details of integer evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Integer> intDetails = client.getIntegerDetails("intFlag", 1);

// get details of double evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Double> doubleDetails = client.getDoubleDetails("doubleFlag", .9);

// get details of object evaluation
FlagEvaluationDetails<Value> objectDetails = client.getObjectDetails<MyObject>("objectFlag", myObjectDefaultInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">

```csharp
// get details of boolean evaluation
var boolDetails = await client.GetBooleanDetails("boolFlag", false);

// get details of string evaluation
var stringDetails = await client.GetStringDetails("stringFlag", "default");

// get details of int evaluation
var intDetails = await client.GetIntegerDetails("intFlag", 1);

// get details of double evaluation
var doubleDetails = await client.GetDoubleDetails("doubleFlag", 1);

// get details of object evaluation
var objectDetails = await client.GetObjectDetails("objectFlag", myObjectDefaultInstance);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go" label="Go">

```go
// get details of boolean evaluation
boolDetails, err := client.BooleanValueDetails(context.Background(), "boolFlag", false, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of string evaluation
stringDetails, err := client.StringValueDetails(context.Background(), "stringFlag", "default", openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of integer evaluation
intDetails, err := client.IntValueDetails(context.Background(), "intFlag", 1, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of float evaluation
floatDetails, err := client.FloatValueDetails(context.Background(), "floatFlag", 3.14, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})

// get details of object evaluation
objectDetails, err := client.ObjectValueDetails(context.Background(), "objectFlag", myObject, openfeature.EvaluationContext{})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php" label="PHP">

```php
// get details of a boolean evaluation
$boolDetails = $client->getBooleanDetails("boolFlag", false, null, null);

// get details of a string evaluation
$stringDetails = $client->getStringDetails("stringFlag", "default", null, null);

// get details of an integer evaluation
$intDetails = $client->getIntegerDetails("intFlag", 1, null, null);

// get details of a float evaluation
$floatDetails = $client->getFloatDetails("floatFlag", 0.9, null, null);

// get details of an object evaluation
$objectDetails = $client->getObjectDetails("objectFlag", $myObjectInstance, null, null);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
# get details of boolean evaluation
details = client.get_boolean_details("boolFlag", false);

# get details of string evaluation
details = client.get_string_details("stringFlag", "default");

# get details of an integer evaluation
details = client.get_integer_details("intFlag", 1);

# get details of a float evaluation
details = client.get_float_details("floatFlag", 1);

# get details of object evaluation
details = client.get_object_details("objectFlag", {});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
