docs/reference/technologies/client/web/index.mdx, before:

---
title: OpenFeature Web SDK
id: web
sidebar_label: Web
---

<!--
This content has been automatically generated from js-sdk.

Edits should be made here: https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk
Once a repo has been updated, docs can be generated by running: yarn update:sdk-docs

Last updated at Thu May 02 2024 08:07:45 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
-->

<p align="center" class="github-badges">
  <a href="https://github.com/open-feature/spec/releases/tag/v0.8.0">
    <img alt="Specification" src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=specification&message=v0.8.0&color=yellow&style=for-the-badge" />
  </a>
  
  <a href="https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/releases/tag/web-sdk-v1.0.3">
    <img alt="Release" src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=release&message=v1.0.3&color=blue&style=for-the-badge" />
  </a>
  
  <br/>
  <a href="https://open-feature.github.io/js-sdk/modules/_openfeature_web_sdk.html">
    <img alt="API Reference" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/reference-teal?logo=javascript&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@openfeature/web-sdk">
    <img alt="NPM Download" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/%40openfeature%2Fweb-sdk" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/open-feature/js-sdk">
    <img alt="codecov" src="https://codecov.io/gh/open-feature/js-sdk/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=3DC5XOEHMY" />
  </a>
    <a href="https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6594">
    <img alt="CII Best Practices" src="https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6594/badge" />
  </a>
</p>

## Quick start

### Requirements

- ES2022-compatible web browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, etc)

### Install

#### npm

```sh
npm install --save @openfeature/web-sdk
```

#### yarn

```sh
# yarn requires manual installation of the @openfeature/core peer-dependency
yarn add @openfeature/web-sdk @openfeature/core
```

> [!NOTE]  
> `@openfeature/core` contains common components used by all OpenFeature JavaScript implementations.
> Every SDK version has a requirement on a single, specific version of this dependency.
> For more information, and similar implications on libraries developed with OpenFeature see [considerations when extending](#considerations).

### Usage

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

// Register your feature flag provider
await OpenFeature.setProviderAndWait(new YourProviderOfChoice());

// create a new client
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();

// Evaluate your feature flag
const v2Enabled = client.getBooleanValue('v2_enabled', false);

if (v2Enabled) {
  console.log("v2 is enabled");
}
```

### API Reference

See [here](https://open-feature.github.io/js-sdk/modules/_openfeature_web_sdk.html) for the complete API documentation.

## Features

| Status | Features                            | Description                                                                                                                        |
| ------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ✅      | [Providers](#providers)             | Integrate with a commercial, open source, or in-house feature management tool.                                                     |
| ✅      | [Targeting](#targeting-and-context) | Contextually-aware flag evaluation using [evaluation context](/docs/reference/concepts/evaluation-context). |
| ✅      | [Hooks](#hooks)                     | Add functionality to various stages of the flag evaluation life-cycle.                                                             |
| ✅      | [Logging](#logging)                 | Integrate with popular logging packages.                                                                                           |
| ✅      | [Domains](#domains)                 | Logically bind clients with providers.                                                                                             |
| ✅      | [Eventing](#eventing)               | React to state changes in the provider or flag management system.                                                                  |
| ✅      | [Shutdown](#shutdown)               | Gracefully clean up a provider during application shutdown.                                                                        |
| ✅      | [Extending](#extending)             | Extend OpenFeature with custom providers and hooks.                                                                                |

<sub>Implemented: ✅ | In-progress: ⚠️ | Not implemented yet: ❌</sub>

### Providers

[Providers](/docs/reference/concepts/provider) are an abstraction between a flag management system and the OpenFeature SDK.
Look [here](/ecosystem/?instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btype%5D%5B0%5D=Provider&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Bcategory%5D%5B0%5D=Client-side&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btechnology%5D%5B0%5D=JavaScript) for a complete list of available providers.
If the provider you're looking for hasn't been created yet, see the [develop a provider](#develop-a-provider) section to learn how to build it yourself.

Once you've added a provider as a dependency, it can be registered with OpenFeature like this:

#### Awaitable

To register a provider and ensure it is ready before further actions are taken, you can use the `setProviderAndWait` method as shown below:

```ts
await OpenFeature.setProviderAndWait(new MyProvider());
```  

#### Synchronous

To register a provider in a synchronous manner, you can use the `setProvider` method as shown below:

```ts
OpenFeature.setProvider(new MyProvider());
```

Once the provider has been registered, the status can be tracked using [events](#eventing).

In some situations, it may be beneficial to register multiple providers in the same application.
This is possible using [domains](#domains), which is covered in more detail below.

### Flag evaluation flow

When a new provider is added to OpenFeature client the following process happens:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    Client-->+Feature Flag Provider: ResolveAll (context)
    Feature Flag Provider-->-Client: Flags values
```

In (1) the Client sends a request to the provider backend in order to get all values from all feature flags that it has.
Once the provider backend replies (2) the client holds all flag values and therefore the flag evaluation process is synchronous.

In order to prevent flag evaluations from defaulting while the provider is initializing, it is highly recommended to evaluate flags only after the provider is ready. This can be done using the `setProviderAndWait` method or using the `setProvider` method and listening for the `READY` [event](#eventing).

### Targeting and Context

Sometimes, the value of a flag must consider some dynamic criteria about the application or user, such as the user's location, IP, email address, or the server's location.
In OpenFeature, we refer to this as [targeting](/specification/glossary#targeting).
If the flag management system you're using supports targeting, you can provide the input data using the [evaluation context](/docs/reference/concepts/evaluation-context).

```ts
// Set a value to the global context
await OpenFeature.setContext({ origin: document.location.host });
```

Context is global and setting it is `async`.
Providers may implement an `onContextChanged` method that receives the old and newer contexts.
Given a context change, providers can use this method internally to detect if the flag values cached on the client are still valid.
If needed, a request will be made to the provider with the new context in order to get the correct flag values.

### Hooks

[Hooks](/docs/reference/concepts/hooks) allow for custom logic to be added at well-defined points of the flag evaluation life-cycle.
Look [here](/ecosystem/?instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btype%5D%5B0%5D=Hook&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Bcategory%5D%5B0%5D=Client-side&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btechnology%5D%5B0%5D=JavaScript) for a complete list of available hooks.
If the hook you're looking for hasn't been created yet, see the [develop a hook](#develop-a-hook) section to learn how to build it yourself.

Once you've added a hook as a dependency, it can be registered at the global, client, or flag invocation level.

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

// add a hook globally, to run on all evaluations
OpenFeature.addHooks(new ExampleGlobalHook());

// add a hook on this client, to run on all evaluations made by this client
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();
client.addHooks(new ExampleClientHook());

// add a hook for this evaluation only
const boolValue = client.getBooleanValue("bool-flag", false, { hooks: [new ExampleHook()]});
```

### Logging

The Web SDK will log warnings and errors to the console by default.
This behavior can be overridden by passing a custom logger either globally or per client.
A custom logger must implement the [Logger interface](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/main/packages/shared/src/logger/logger.ts).

```ts
import type { Logger } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

// The logger can be anything that conforms with the Logger interface
const logger: Logger = console;

// Sets a global logger
OpenFeature.setLogger(logger);

// Sets a client logger
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();
client.setLogger(logger);
```

### Domains

Clients can be assigned to a domain.
A domain is a logical identifier which can be used to associate clients with a particular provider.
If a domain has no associated provider, the default provider is used.

```ts
import { OpenFeature, InMemoryProvider } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

// Registering the default provider
OpenFeature.setProvider(InMemoryProvider(myFlags));
// Registering a provider to a domain
OpenFeature.setProvider("my-domain", new InMemoryProvider(someOtherFlags));

// A Client bound to the default provider
const clientWithDefault = OpenFeature.getClient();
// A Client bound to the InMemoryProvider provider
const domainScopedClient = OpenFeature.getClient("my-domain");
```

Domains can be defined on a provider during registration.
For more details, please refer to the [providers](#providers) section.

### Eventing

Events allow you to react to state changes in the provider or underlying flag management system, such as flag definition changes, provider readiness, or error conditions.
Initialization events (`PROVIDER_READY` on success, `PROVIDER_ERROR` on failure) are dispatched for every provider.
Some providers support additional events, such as `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED`.

Please refer to the documentation of the provider you're using to see what events are supported.

```ts
import { OpenFeature, ProviderEvents } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

// OpenFeature API
OpenFeature.addHandler(ProviderEvents.Ready, (eventDetails) => {
  console.log(`Ready event from: ${eventDetails?.providerName}:`, eventDetails);
});

// Specific client
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();
client.addHandler(ProviderEvents.Error, (eventDetails) => {
  console.log(`Error event from: ${eventDetails?.providerName}:`, eventDetails);
});
```

### Shutdown

The OpenFeature API provides a close function to perform a cleanup of all registered providers.
This should only be called when your application is in the process of shutting down.

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

await OpenFeature.close()
```

## Extending

### Develop a provider

To develop a provider, you need to create a new project and include the OpenFeature SDK as a dependency.
This can be a new repository or included in [the existing contrib repository](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib) available under the OpenFeature organization.
You’ll then need to write the provider by implementing the [Provider interface](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/main/packages/client/src/provider/provider.ts) exported by the OpenFeature SDK.

```ts
import {
  AnyProviderEvent,
  EvaluationContext,
  Hook,
  JsonValue,
  Logger,
  Provider,
  ProviderEventEmitter,
  ResolutionDetails
} from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

// implement the provider interface
class MyProvider implements Provider {
  // Adds runtime validation that the provider is used with the expected SDK
  public readonly runsOn = 'client';
  readonly metadata = {
    name: 'My Provider',
  } as const;
  // Optional provider managed hooks
  hooks?: Hook[];
  resolveBooleanEvaluation(flagKey: string, defaultValue: boolean, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<boolean> {
    // code to evaluate a boolean
  }
  resolveStringEvaluation(flagKey: string, defaultValue: string, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<string> {
    // code to evaluate a string
  }
  resolveNumberEvaluation(flagKey: string, defaultValue: number, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<number> {
    // code to evaluate a number
  }
  resolveObjectEvaluation<T extends JsonValue>(flagKey: string, defaultValue: T, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<T> {
    // code to evaluate an object
  }

  onContextChange?(oldContext: EvaluationContext, newContext: EvaluationContext): Promise<void> {
    // reconcile the provider's cached flags, if applicable
  }

  // implement with "new OpenFeatureEventEmitter()", and use "emit()" to emit events
  events?: ProviderEventEmitter<AnyProviderEvent> | undefined; 

  initialize?(context?: EvaluationContext | undefined): Promise<void> {
    // code to initialize your provider
  }
  onClose?(): Promise<void> {
    // code to shut down your provider
  }
}
```

> Built a new provider? [Let us know](https://github.com/open-feature/openfeature.dev/issues/new?assignees=&labels=provider&projects=&template=document-provider.yaml&title=%5BProvider%5D%3A+) so we can add it to the docs!

### Develop a hook

To develop a hook, you need to create a new project and include the OpenFeature SDK as a dependency.
This can be a new repository or included in [the existing contrib repository](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib) available under the OpenFeature organization.
Implement your own hook by conforming to the [Hook interface](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/main/packages/shared/src/hooks/hook.ts).

```ts
import type { Hook, HookContext, EvaluationDetails, FlagValue } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

export class MyHook implements Hook {
  after(hookContext: HookContext, evaluationDetails: EvaluationDetails<FlagValue>) {
    // code that runs when there's an error during a flag evaluation
  }
}
```

> Built a new hook? [Let us know](https://github.com/open-feature/openfeature.dev/issues/new?assignees=&labels=hook&projects=&template=document-hook.yaml&title=%5BHook%5D%3A+) so we can add it to the docs!

### Considerations

When developing a library based on OpenFeature components, it's important to list the `@openfeature/web-sdk` as a `peerDependency` of your package.
This is a general best-practice when developing JavaScript libraries that have dependencies in common with their consuming application.
Failing to do this can result in multiple copies of the OpenFeature SDK in the consumer, which can lead to type errors, and broken singleton behavior.
The `@openfeature/core` package itself follows this pattern: the `@openfeature/web-sdk` has a peer dependency on `@openfeature/core`, and uses whatever copy of that module the consumer has installed (note that NPM installs peers automatically unless `--legacy-peer-deps` is set, while yarn does not, and PNPM does so based on its configuration).
When developing such libraries, it's NOT necessary to add a `peerDependency` on `@openfeature/core`, since the `@openfeature/web-sdk` establishes that dependency itself transitively.

Commit message:

Dont use web-based-SDK in node apps.
Signed-off-by: Ben Rometsch <ben.rometsch@gmail.com>

docs/reference/technologies/client/web/index.mdx, after:

---
title: OpenFeature Web SDK
id: web
sidebar_label: Web
---

<!--
This content has been automatically generated from js-sdk.

Edits should be made here: https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk
Once a repo has been updated, docs can be generated by running: yarn update:sdk-docs

Last updated at Thu May 02 2024 08:07:45 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
-->

<p align="center" class="github-badges">
  <a href="https://github.com/open-feature/spec/releases/tag/v0.8.0">
    <img alt="Specification" src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=specification&message=v0.8.0&color=yellow&style=for-the-badge" />
  </a>
  
  <a href="https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/releases/tag/web-sdk-v1.0.3">
    <img alt="Release" src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=release&message=v1.0.3&color=blue&style=for-the-badge" />
  </a>
  
  <br/>
  <a href="https://open-feature.github.io/js-sdk/modules/_openfeature_web_sdk.html">
    <img alt="API Reference" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/reference-teal?logo=javascript&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@openfeature/web-sdk">
    <img alt="NPM Download" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/%40openfeature%2Fweb-sdk" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/open-feature/js-sdk">
    <img alt="codecov" src="https://codecov.io/gh/open-feature/js-sdk/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=3DC5XOEHMY" />
  </a>
    <a href="https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6594">
    <img alt="CII Best Practices" src="https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6594/badge" />
  </a>
</p>

## Quick start

### Requirements

- ES2022-compatible web browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, etc)

### Install

:::tip

This SDK is designed for running in web browsers. If you are writing a server-side Javascript application in node.js you probably want the [NodeJS SDK](/docs/reference/technologies/server/javascript/).

:::

#### npm

```sh
npm install --save @openfeature/web-sdk
```

#### yarn

```sh
# yarn requires manual installation of the @openfeature/core peer-dependency
yarn add @openfeature/web-sdk @openfeature/core
```

> [!NOTE]  
> `@openfeature/core` contains common components used by all OpenFeature JavaScript implementations.
> Every SDK version has a requirement on a single, specific version of this dependency.
> For more information, and similar implications on libraries developed with OpenFeature see [considerations when extending](#considerations).

### Usage

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

// Register your feature flag provider
await OpenFeature.setProviderAndWait(new YourProviderOfChoice());

// create a new client
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();

// Evaluate your feature flag
const v2Enabled = client.getBooleanValue('v2_enabled', false);

if (v2Enabled) {
  console.log("v2 is enabled");
}
```

### API Reference

See [here](https://open-feature.github.io/js-sdk/modules/_openfeature_web_sdk.html) for the complete API documentation.

## Features

| Status | Features                            | Description                                                                                                                        |
| ------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ✅      | [Providers](#providers)             | Integrate with a commercial, open source, or in-house feature management tool.                                                     |
| ✅      | [Targeting](#targeting-and-context) | Contextually-aware flag evaluation using [evaluation context](/docs/reference/concepts/evaluation-context). |
| ✅      | [Hooks](#hooks)                     | Add functionality to various stages of the flag evaluation life-cycle.                                                             |
| ✅      | [Logging](#logging)                 | Integrate with popular logging packages.                                                                                           |
| ✅      | [Domains](#domains)                 | Logically bind clients with providers.                                                                                             |
| ✅      | [Eventing](#eventing)               | React to state changes in the provider or flag management system.                                                                  |
| ✅      | [Shutdown](#shutdown)               | Gracefully clean up a provider during application shutdown.                                                                        |
| ✅      | [Extending](#extending)             | Extend OpenFeature with custom providers and hooks.                                                                                |

<sub>Implemented: ✅ | In-progress: ⚠️ | Not implemented yet: ❌</sub>

### Providers

[Providers](/docs/reference/concepts/provider) are an abstraction between a flag management system and the OpenFeature SDK.
Look [here](/ecosystem/?instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btype%5D%5B0%5D=Provider&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Bcategory%5D%5B0%5D=Client-side&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btechnology%5D%5B0%5D=JavaScript) for a complete list of available providers.
If the provider you're looking for hasn't been created yet, see the [develop a provider](#develop-a-provider) section to learn how to build it yourself.

Once you've added a provider as a dependency, it can be registered with OpenFeature like this:

#### Awaitable

To register a provider and ensure it is ready before further actions are taken, you can use the `setProviderAndWait` method as shown below:

```ts
await OpenFeature.setProviderAndWait(new MyProvider());
```  

#### Synchronous

To register a provider in a synchronous manner, you can use the `setProvider` method as shown below:

```ts
OpenFeature.setProvider(new MyProvider());
```

Once the provider has been registered, the status can be tracked using [events](#eventing).

In some situations, it may be beneficial to register multiple providers in the same application.
This is possible using [domains](#domains), which is covered in more detail below.

### Flag evaluation flow

When a new provider is added to OpenFeature client the following process happens:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    Client-->+Feature Flag Provider: ResolveAll (context)
    Feature Flag Provider-->-Client: Flags values
```

In (1) the Client sends a request to the provider backend in order to get all values from all feature flags that it has.
Once the provider backend replies (2) the client holds all flag values and therefore the flag evaluation process is synchronous.

In order to prevent flag evaluations from defaulting while the provider is initializing, it is highly recommended to evaluate flags only after the provider is ready. This can be done using the `setProviderAndWait` method or using the `setProvider` method and listening for the `READY` [event](#eventing).

### Targeting and Context

Sometimes, the value of a flag must consider some dynamic criteria about the application or user, such as the user's location, IP, email address, or the server's location.
In OpenFeature, we refer to this as [targeting](/specification/glossary#targeting).
If the flag management system you're using supports targeting, you can provide the input data using the [evaluation context](/docs/reference/concepts/evaluation-context).

```ts
// Set a value to the global context
await OpenFeature.setContext({ origin: document.location.host });
```

Context is global and setting it is `async`.
Providers may implement an `onContextChanged` method that receives the old and newer contexts.
Given a context change, providers can use this method internally to detect if the flag values cached on the client are still valid.
If needed, a request will be made to the provider with the new context in order to get the correct flag values.

### Hooks

[Hooks](/docs/reference/concepts/hooks) allow for custom logic to be added at well-defined points of the flag evaluation life-cycle.
Look [here](/ecosystem/?instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btype%5D%5B0%5D=Hook&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Bcategory%5D%5B0%5D=Client-side&instant_search%5BrefinementList%5D%5Btechnology%5D%5B0%5D=JavaScript) for a complete list of available hooks.
If the hook you're looking for hasn't been created yet, see the [develop a hook](#develop-a-hook) section to learn how to build it yourself.

Once you've added a hook as a dependency, it can be registered at the global, client, or flag invocation level.

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

// add a hook globally, to run on all evaluations
OpenFeature.addHooks(new ExampleGlobalHook());

// add a hook on this client, to run on all evaluations made by this client
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();
client.addHooks(new ExampleClientHook());

// add a hook for this evaluation only
const boolValue = client.getBooleanValue("bool-flag", false, { hooks: [new ExampleHook()]});
```

### Logging

The Web SDK will log warnings and errors to the console by default.
This behavior can be overridden by passing a custom logger either globally or per client.
A custom logger must implement the [Logger interface](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/main/packages/shared/src/logger/logger.ts).

```ts
import type { Logger } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

// The logger can be anything that conforms with the Logger interface
const logger: Logger = console;

// Sets a global logger
OpenFeature.setLogger(logger);

// Sets a client logger
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();
client.setLogger(logger);
```

### Domains

Clients can be assigned to a domain.
A domain is a logical identifier which can be used to associate clients with a particular provider.
If a domain has no associated provider, the default provider is used.

```ts
import { OpenFeature, InMemoryProvider } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

// Registering the default provider
OpenFeature.setProvider(InMemoryProvider(myFlags));
// Registering a provider to a domain
OpenFeature.setProvider("my-domain", new InMemoryProvider(someOtherFlags));

// A Client bound to the default provider
const clientWithDefault = OpenFeature.getClient();
// A Client bound to the InMemoryProvider provider
const domainScopedClient = OpenFeature.getClient("my-domain");
```

Domains can be defined on a provider during registration.
For more details, please refer to the [providers](#providers) section.

### Eventing

Events allow you to react to state changes in the provider or underlying flag management system, such as flag definition changes, provider readiness, or error conditions.
Initialization events (`PROVIDER_READY` on success, `PROVIDER_ERROR` on failure) are dispatched for every provider.
Some providers support additional events, such as `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED`.

Please refer to the documentation of the provider you're using to see what events are supported.

```ts
import { OpenFeature, ProviderEvents } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

// OpenFeature API
OpenFeature.addHandler(ProviderEvents.Ready, (eventDetails) => {
  console.log(`Ready event from: ${eventDetails?.providerName}:`, eventDetails);
});

// Specific client
const client = OpenFeature.getClient();
client.addHandler(ProviderEvents.Error, (eventDetails) => {
  console.log(`Error event from: ${eventDetails?.providerName}:`, eventDetails);
});
```

### Shutdown

The OpenFeature API provides a close function to perform a cleanup of all registered providers.
This should only be called when your application is in the process of shutting down.

```ts
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

await OpenFeature.close()
```

## Extending

### Develop a provider

To develop a provider, you need to create a new project and include the OpenFeature SDK as a dependency.
This can be a new repository or included in [the existing contrib repository](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib) available under the OpenFeature organization.
You’ll then need to write the provider by implementing the [Provider interface](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/main/packages/client/src/provider/provider.ts) exported by the OpenFeature SDK.

```ts
import {
  AnyProviderEvent,
  EvaluationContext,
  Hook,
  JsonValue,
  Logger,
  Provider,
  ProviderEventEmitter,
  ResolutionDetails
} from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

// implement the provider interface
class MyProvider implements Provider {
  // Adds runtime validation that the provider is used with the expected SDK
  public readonly runsOn = 'client';
  readonly metadata = {
    name: 'My Provider',
  } as const;
  // Optional provider managed hooks
  hooks?: Hook[];
  resolveBooleanEvaluation(flagKey: string, defaultValue: boolean, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<boolean> {
    // code to evaluate a boolean
  }
  resolveStringEvaluation(flagKey: string, defaultValue: string, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<string> {
    // code to evaluate a string
  }
  resolveNumberEvaluation(flagKey: string, defaultValue: number, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<number> {
    // code to evaluate a number
  }
  resolveObjectEvaluation<T extends JsonValue>(flagKey: string, defaultValue: T, context: EvaluationContext, logger: Logger): ResolutionDetails<T> {
    // code to evaluate an object
  }

  onContextChange?(oldContext: EvaluationContext, newContext: EvaluationContext): Promise<void> {
    // reconcile the provider's cached flags, if applicable
  }

  // implement with "new OpenFeatureEventEmitter()", and use "emit()" to emit events
  events?: ProviderEventEmitter<AnyProviderEvent> | undefined; 

  initialize?(context?: EvaluationContext | undefined): Promise<void> {
    // code to initialize your provider
  }
  onClose?(): Promise<void> {
    // code to shut down your provider
  }
}
```

> Built a new provider? [Let us know](https://github.com/open-feature/openfeature.dev/issues/new?assignees=&labels=provider&projects=&template=document-provider.yaml&title=%5BProvider%5D%3A+) so we can add it to the docs!

### Develop a hook

To develop a hook, you need to create a new project and include the OpenFeature SDK as a dependency.
This can be a new repository or included in [the existing contrib repository](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib) available under the OpenFeature organization.
Implement your own hook by conforming to the [Hook interface](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/main/packages/shared/src/hooks/hook.ts).

```ts
import type { Hook, HookContext, EvaluationDetails, FlagValue } from "@openfeature/web-sdk";

export class MyHook implements Hook {
  after(hookContext: HookContext, evaluationDetails: EvaluationDetails<FlagValue>) {
    // code that runs when there's an error during a flag evaluation
  }
}
```

> Built a new hook? [Let us know](https://github.com/open-feature/openfeature.dev/issues/new?assignees=&labels=hook&projects=&template=document-hook.yaml&title=%5BHook%5D%3A+) so we can add it to the docs!

### Considerations

When developing a library based on OpenFeature components, it's important to list the `@openfeature/web-sdk` as a `peerDependency` of your package.
This is a general best-practice when developing JavaScript libraries that have dependencies in common with their consuming application.
Failing to do this can result in multiple copies of the OpenFeature SDK in the consumer, which can lead to type errors, and broken singleton behavior.
The `@openfeature/core` package itself follows this pattern: the `@openfeature/web-sdk` has a peer dependency on `@openfeature/core`, and uses whatever copy of that module the consumer has installed (note that NPM installs peers automatically unless `--legacy-peer-deps` is set, while yarn does not, and PNPM does so based on its configuration).
When developing such libraries, it's NOT necessary to add a `peerDependency` on `@openfeature/core`, since the `@openfeature/web-sdk` establishes that dependency itself transitively.
