docs/tutorials/getting-started/dotnet.mdx, before:

---
title: .NET SDK and ASP.NET Core
description: Getting Started with the OpenFeature .NET SDK
---

import FlagdContent from '@site/src/components/custom/tutorial/flagd-content.mdx';
import FlagdChangeContent from '@site/src/components/custom/tutorial/flagd-change-content.mdx';

# Getting Started with the OpenFeature .NET SDK

## Introduction

This walk-through teaches you the basics of using OpenFeature in .NET within a ASP.NET Core Web application.

You'll learn how to:

- Integrate the OpenFeature .NET SDK
- Install and configure the OpenFeature provider
- Perform basic feature flagging

## Requirements

This walk-through assumes that:

- You have a basic knowledge of C# and .NET
- You have installed the [.NET 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/) or later SDK

## Walk-through

### Step 1: Create a .NET 8 Web application

To get started you can use the .NET SDK to initialise a web application. Open a terminal (**shell**, **Command Prompt**, or **bash**) and paste the following commands:

```shell
dotnet new webapi -o openfeature-dotnet-sample
cd openfeature-dotnet-sample
dotnet run
```

### Step 2: Add dependencies

With NuGet you can install the latest [OpenFeature](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenFeature) package into your .NET web application.

```shell
dotnet add package OpenFeature
```

### Step 3: Add code

The following will initialise an `InMemoryProvider` for use within the web application. Open a code editor and add the C# code below to the Program.cs.

```csharp
// diff-add-block-start
using OpenFeature;
using OpenFeature.Providers.Memory;
// diff-add-block-end

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

// Add services to the container.
// Learn more about configuring OpenAPI at https://aka.ms/aspnet/openapi
builder.Services.AddOpenApi();

var app = builder.Build();

// diff-add-block-start
// Register your feature flag provider
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider());
// diff-add-block-end

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.MapOpenApi();
}

app.UseHttpsRedirection();

//diff-remove-block-start
var summaries = new[]
{
    "Freezing", "Bracing", "Chilly", "Cool", "Mild", "Warm", "Balmy", "Hot", "Sweltering", "Scorching"
};
//diff-remove-block-end

//diff-remove-block-start
app.MapGet("/weatherforecast", () =>
{
    var forecast = Enumerable.Range(1, 5).Select(index =>
        new WeatherForecast
        (
            DateOnly.FromDateTime(DateTime.Now.AddDays(index)),
            Random.Shared.Next(-20, 55),
            summaries[Random.Shared.Next(summaries.Length)]
        ))
        .ToArray();
    return forecast;
})
.WithName("GetWeatherForecast");
//diff-remove-block-end
//diff-add-block-start
app.MapGet("/hello", async () =>
{
    var client = Api.Instance.GetClient();

    if (await client.GetBooleanValueAsync("welcome-message", false))
    {
        return "Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!";
    }

    return "Hello";
})
.WithName("GetHello");
//diff-add-block-end

app.Run();

//diff-remove-block-start
record WeatherForecast(DateOnly Date, int TemperatureC, string? Summary)
{
    public int TemperatureF => 32 + (int)(TemperatureC / 0.5556);
}
//diff-remove-block-end
```

At this point, we are ready to run the initial version of our application.

### Step 4: Run the initial application

Let's compile and run the application.

```shell
dotnet build
dotnet run
```

In the logs you should see a line with the following `Now listening on: http://localhost:5251`, although the port number may differ. You can visit the following URL in your browser http://localhost:5251/hello (adjust port number as necessary) to view the hello world message. You should the message "Hello".

At the moment, our application is configured with an InMemoryProvider. No flags have been passed to the provider, so by default the value specified in `GetBooleanValueAsync` method will return false.

We can configure the InMemoryProvider and pass some configuration.

```csharp
// diff-add-block-start
var features = new Dictionary<string, Flag>()
{
    { "welcome-message", new Flag<bool>(new Dictionary<string, bool> { { "on", true } }, "on") }
};
// diff-add-block-end

// diff-remove
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider());
// diff-add
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider(flags));
```

If you run the application again, and repeat the request to `/hello`, you will see the phrase "Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!"

### Step 5: Configure a provider (flagd)

<FlagdContent/>

Finally, let's add the required code change to enable the flagd provider in our .NET application. First we need to install the [.NET OpenFeature Flagd](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenFeature.Contrib.Providers.Flagd/) package.

```shell
dotnet add package OpenFeature.Contrib.Providers.Flagd
```

Next, we need to make small change to the `SetProviderAsync` method and pass in the `FlagdProvider`.

```csharp

using OpenFeature;
//diff-add
using OpenFeature.Contrib.Providers.Flagd
using OpenFeature.Providers.Memory;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

// Add services to the container.
// Learn more about configuring OpenAPI at https://aka.ms/aspnet/openapi
builder.Services.AddOpenApi();

var app = builder.Build();

// Register your feature flag provider
//diff-remove
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider());
//diff-add-block-start
var flagdProvider = new FlagdProvider(new Uri("http://localhost:8013"));
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(flagdProvider);
//diff-add-block-end

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.MapOpenApi();
}

app.UseHttpsRedirection();

app.MapGet("/hello", async () =>
{
    var client = Api.Instance.GetClient();

    if (await client.GetBooleanValueAsync("welcome-message", false))
    {
        return "Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!";
    }

    return "Hello";
})
.WithName("GetHello");

app.Run();
```

### Step 6: Rerun the application

We can use the .NET CLI to build and run our application.

```shell
dotnet build
dotnet run
```

You can visit the following URL in your browser http://localhost:5251/hello (adjust port number as necessary) to view the hello world message. You should the message "Hello".

<FlagdChangeContent/>

Revisit the endpoint http://localhost:5251/hello and you will be greeted with `Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!`

## Conclusion

This walk-through introduced you to the OpenFeature .NET SDK.
It covered how a provider can be configured to perform the flag evaluation and introduced basic feature
flagging concepts.
It also showcased how feature flags can be updated at runtime, without requiring a code change and a redeployment.

Commit message:

Add docker requirement for flagd
Signed-off-by: Kyle Julian <38759683+kylejuliandev@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/tutorials/getting-started/dotnet.mdx, after:

---
title: .NET SDK and ASP.NET Core
description: Getting Started with the OpenFeature .NET SDK
---

import FlagdContent from '@site/src/components/custom/tutorial/flagd-content.mdx';
import FlagdChangeContent from '@site/src/components/custom/tutorial/flagd-change-content.mdx';

# Getting Started with the OpenFeature .NET SDK

## Introduction

This walk-through teaches you the basics of using OpenFeature in .NET within a ASP.NET Core Web application.

You'll learn how to:

- Integrate the OpenFeature .NET SDK
- Install and configure the OpenFeature provider
- Perform basic feature flagging

## Requirements

This walk-through assumes that:

- You have a basic knowledge of C# and .NET
- You have installed the [.NET 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/) or later SDK
- You have Docker installed and running on the host system

## Walk-through

### Step 1: Create a .NET 8 Web application

To get started you can use the .NET SDK to initialise a web application. Open a terminal (**shell**, **Command Prompt**, or **bash**) and paste the following commands:

```shell
dotnet new webapi -o openfeature-dotnet-sample
cd openfeature-dotnet-sample
dotnet run
```

### Step 2: Add dependencies

With NuGet you can install the latest [OpenFeature](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenFeature) package into your .NET web application.

```shell
dotnet add package OpenFeature
```

### Step 3: Add code

The following will initialise an `InMemoryProvider` for use within the web application. Open a code editor and add the C# code below to the Program.cs.

```csharp
// diff-add-block-start
using OpenFeature;
using OpenFeature.Providers.Memory;
// diff-add-block-end

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

// Add services to the container.
// Learn more about configuring OpenAPI at https://aka.ms/aspnet/openapi
builder.Services.AddOpenApi();

var app = builder.Build();

// diff-add-block-start
// Register your feature flag provider
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider());
// diff-add-block-end

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.MapOpenApi();
}

app.UseHttpsRedirection();

//diff-remove-block-start
var summaries = new[]
{
    "Freezing", "Bracing", "Chilly", "Cool", "Mild", "Warm", "Balmy", "Hot", "Sweltering", "Scorching"
};
//diff-remove-block-end

//diff-remove-block-start
app.MapGet("/weatherforecast", () =>
{
    var forecast = Enumerable.Range(1, 5).Select(index =>
        new WeatherForecast
        (
            DateOnly.FromDateTime(DateTime.Now.AddDays(index)),
            Random.Shared.Next(-20, 55),
            summaries[Random.Shared.Next(summaries.Length)]
        ))
        .ToArray();
    return forecast;
})
.WithName("GetWeatherForecast");
//diff-remove-block-end
//diff-add-block-start
app.MapGet("/hello", async () =>
{
    var client = Api.Instance.GetClient();

    if (await client.GetBooleanValueAsync("welcome-message", false))
    {
        return "Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!";
    }

    return "Hello";
})
.WithName("GetHello");
//diff-add-block-end

app.Run();

//diff-remove-block-start
record WeatherForecast(DateOnly Date, int TemperatureC, string? Summary)
{
    public int TemperatureF => 32 + (int)(TemperatureC / 0.5556);
}
//diff-remove-block-end
```

At this point, we are ready to run the initial version of our application.

### Step 4: Run the initial application

Let's compile and run the application.

```shell
dotnet build
dotnet run
```

In the logs you should see a line with the following `Now listening on: http://localhost:5251`, although the port number may differ. You can visit the following URL in your browser http://localhost:5251/hello (adjust port number as necessary) to view the hello world message. You should the message "Hello".

At the moment, our application is configured with an InMemoryProvider. No flags have been passed to the provider, so by default the value specified in `GetBooleanValueAsync` method will return false.

We can configure the InMemoryProvider and pass some configuration.

```csharp
// diff-add-block-start
var features = new Dictionary<string, Flag>()
{
    { "welcome-message", new Flag<bool>(new Dictionary<string, bool> { { "on", true } }, "on") }
};
// diff-add-block-end

// diff-remove
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider());
// diff-add
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider(flags));
```

If you run the application again, and repeat the request to `/hello`, you will see the phrase "Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!"

### Step 5: Configure a provider (flagd)

<FlagdContent/>

Finally, let's add the required code change to enable the flagd provider in our .NET application. First we need to install the [.NET OpenFeature Flagd](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenFeature.Contrib.Providers.Flagd/) package.

```shell
dotnet add package OpenFeature.Contrib.Providers.Flagd
```

Next, we need to make small change to the `SetProviderAsync` method and pass in the `FlagdProvider`.

```csharp

using OpenFeature;
//diff-add
using OpenFeature.Contrib.Providers.Flagd
using OpenFeature.Providers.Memory;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

// Add services to the container.
// Learn more about configuring OpenAPI at https://aka.ms/aspnet/openapi
builder.Services.AddOpenApi();

var app = builder.Build();

// Register your feature flag provider
//diff-remove
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(new InMemoryProvider());
//diff-add-block-start
var flagdProvider = new FlagdProvider(new Uri("http://localhost:8013"));
await Api.Instance.SetProviderAsync(flagdProvider);
//diff-add-block-end

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.MapOpenApi();
}

app.UseHttpsRedirection();

app.MapGet("/hello", async () =>
{
    var client = Api.Instance.GetClient();

    if (await client.GetBooleanValueAsync("welcome-message", false))
    {
        return "Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!";
    }

    return "Hello";
})
.WithName("GetHello");

app.Run();
```

### Step 6: Rerun the application

We can use the .NET CLI to build and run our application.

```shell
dotnet build
dotnet run
```

You can visit the following URL in your browser http://localhost:5251/hello (adjust port number as necessary) to view the hello world message. You should the message "Hello".

<FlagdChangeContent/>

Revisit the endpoint http://localhost:5251/hello and you will be greeted with `Hello, welcome to this OpenFeature-enabled website!`

## Conclusion

This walk-through introduced you to the OpenFeature .NET SDK.
It covered how a provider can be configured to perform the flag evaluation and introduced basic feature
flagging concepts.
It also showcased how feature flags can be updated at runtime, without requiring a code change and a redeployment.
