---
slug: "kubeconna24"
title: "OpenFeature at KubeCon NA '24"
date: 2024-09-19
authors: [beeme1mr]
description: "KubeCon"
tags: [kubecon, cncf, session, talk, booth, "OpenFeature summit", "co-located"]
draft: false
---

We are thrilled to announce that OpenFeature will be hosting its very first co-located event at KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2024!
This is an exciting milestone for us, and we can't wait to share it with you.

<!--truncate-->

### OpenFeature Summit: A New Era in Feature Flagging

The OpenFeature Summit is the ultimate gathering for feature flagging enthusiasts to exchange insights, best practices, and success (and a few horror) stories.
This event is a fantastic opportunity to network, engage in lively discussions, and explore the latest innovations in feature flagging.

**Event Details:**

- **Date:** November 13, 2024
- **Location:** Salt Palace Convention Center, Salt Lake City, UT

:::note

The OpenFeature Summit is a co-located event held the day before KubeCon NA and requires an all-access pass.

:::

**Schedule Highlights:**

- **9:10am MST:** Welcome + Opening Remarks
- **9:45am MST:** [How to Rollout an Update for a CNI Without Breaking the World Wide Web](https://colocatedeventsna2024.sched.com/event/1izpU/how-to-rollout-an-update-for-a-cni-without-breaking-the-world-wide-web-reza-ramezanpour-jen-luther-thomas-tigera) - Reza Ramezanpour & Jen Luther Thomas, Tigera
- **10:40am MST:** [Test Smarter, Not Harder: QA Enhancements with OpenFeature](https://colocatedeventsna2024.sched.com/event/1izpu/test-smarter-not-harder-qa-enhancements-with-openfeature-meha-bhalodiya-red-hat) - Meha Bhalodiya, Red Hat
- **11:15am MST:** [Migrating to Open Feature at Scale: 0 to Billions](https://colocatedeventsna2024.sched.com/event/1izqM/migrating-to-open-feature-at-scale-0-to-billions-chetan-kapoor-justin-abrahms-ebay) - Chetan Kapoor & Justin Abrahms, eBay
- **11:45am MST:** [Experimentation Programs at Scale: Lessons Learned from Top Companies](https://colocatedeventsna2024.sched.com/event/1izqq/experimentation-programs-at-scale-lessons-learned-from-top-companies-graham-mcnicoll-growthbook) - Graham McNicoll, GrowthBook
- **12:00pm MST:** ⚡ [Lightning Talk: The Hidden Costs of Feature Flags: Understanding and Managing Adoption Challenges](https://colocatedeventsna2024.sched.com/event/1izr2/cl-lightning-talk-the-hidden-costs-of-feature-flags-understanding-and-managing-adoption-challenges-shreya-shivratriwar-software-engineer) - Shreya Shivratriwar, Software Engineer
- **12:15pm MST:** ⚡ [Lightning Talk: Mocking Feature Flags in Unit Tests](https://colocatedeventsna2024.sched.com/event/1izrK/cl-lightning-talk-mocking-feature-flags-in-unit-tests-aman-gadadare-jio) - Aman Gadadare, Jio
- **12:25pm MST:** ⚡ [Lightning Talk: Would a Gradual Rollout by Any Other Hashing Algorithm Still Smell as Sweet?](https://colocatedeventsna2024.sched.com/event/1izrP/cl-lightning-talk-would-a-gradual-rollout-by-any-other-hashing-algorithm-still-smell-as-sweet-chris-griffing-gitkraken) - Chris Griffing, GitKraken
- **12:35pm MST:** Closing Remarks

For more details, visit our [OpenFeature Summit page](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/co-located-events/openfeature-summit/).

### KubeCon NA Sessions

In addition to the OpenFeature Summit, there will also be several sessions during KubeCon NA:

- [Taming Your Application’s Environment](https://kccncna2024.sched.com/event/1i7kY/taming-your-applications-environments-marcos-lilljedahl-dagger-mauricio-salaboy-salatino-diagrid)s - Marcos Lilljedahl, Dagger & Mauricio "Salaboy" Salatino, Diagrid
  - **Date:** Wednesday, November 13, 2024
  - **Time:** 5:25pm - 6:00pm MST
  - **Location:** Salt Palace | Level 2 | 250

- [Migratory Patterns: Making Architectural Transitions with Confidence and Grace](https://kccncna2024.sched.com/event/1i7rl/migratory-patterns-making-architectural-transitions-with-confidence-and-grace-pete-hodgson-partnerslate) - Pete Hodgson, PartnerSlate
  - **Date:** Friday, November 15, 2024
  - **Time:** 4:00pm - 4:35pm MST
  - **Location:** Salt Palace | Level 2 | 255 EF

### Visit Our Booth

Don't miss the chance to visit our booth at the Solutions Showcase!
We'll be there to answer your questions, demonstrate our latest features, and discuss how OpenFeature can help your organization.

**Booth Location:** Salt Palace | Level 1 | Halls A-C + 1-5 | Solutions Showcase

**Schedule:**

- **Wednesday, November 13:** 3:15pm - 8:00pm
- **Thursday, November 14:** 1:45pm - 5:00pm
- **Friday, November 15:** 12:30pm - 2:30pm

### Call for Sponsors

We are still looking for sponsors for our co-located event.
If you're interested in supporting the OpenFeature Summit and gaining visibility among a highly engaged audience, please review the [sponsorship prospectus](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/sponsor-cncf-2025_09.11.24.pdf).

We look forward to seeing you at KubeCon NA and the OpenFeature Summit!
